Rewritten autoinstallation chapter of client configuration guide (#917)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/client-configuration/pages/autoinst-pxeboot.adoc

Alternatively, if your DHCP server is registered at {productname}, you can configure it using the DHCPd formula instead:

.Example: Configuring the ISC DHCP Server Using the DHCPd Formula
. Configure the DHCPd formula.
  For more information, see xref:salt:formula-dhcpd.adoc[DHCPd Formula].
. In the  [guimenu]``Filename EFI`` field, type [path]``grub/grub.efi`` to enable EFI PXE support.
. In the  [guimenu]``Filename`` field, type [path]``pxelinux.0`` to enable legacy BIOS support.
. Click btn:[Save Formula] to save your configuration.
. Apply the highstate.

[[synchronize-the-tftp-tree-with-proxies]]
== Synchronize the TFTP Tree with Proxies

You can synchronize the TFTP tree on the {productname} Server with the {productname} Proxy.
For synchronization, HTTPS port 443 must be open.

.Procedure: Synchronizing TFTP between Server and Proxy
. On the server, install the [systemitem]``susemanager-tftpsync`` package:
----
zypper install susemanager-tftpsync
----
. On the proxy, install the [systemitem]``susemanager-tftpsync-recv`` package:
----
zypper install susemanager-tftpsync-recv
----
. On the proxy, as root, run the [command]``configure-tftpsync.sh`` script.

>   The script interactively asks you for details on the host names and IP addresses of the {productname} Server and Proxy, as well for the location of the [path]``tftpboot`` directory on the Proxy. For more information, use the [command]``configure-tftpsync.sh --help`` command.

Author: ???? i did not remove anything, at least not intentionally

>   The script interactively asks you for details on the host names and IP addresses of the {productname} Server and Proxy, as well for the location of the [path]``tftpboot`` directory on the Proxy. For more information, use the [command]``configure-tftpsync.sh --help`` command.

Reviewer: Not sure, maybe I only imagined it. Either way, this is wrong. See https://github.com/uyuni-project/uyuni-docs/issues/888

[[autoinst-pxeboot]]
= Installation via PXE Boot

During a PXE boot network installation:

. The client boots in PXE mode.
. A DHCP server provides the client with an IP address and mask, the address of an installation server, and the name of a bootloader file on that server.
. The client downloads the bootloader file via the TFTP protocol from the installation server and executes it.
. The client is presented with a choice of possible profiles to install from a menu, or starts automatically installing one of the profiles.
. The client downloads via the TFTP protocol a kernel and an initial RAM disk for the distribution matching that profile.
. The installation kernel starts an installation program, either {kickstart} or {ay}.

>   From now on it uses resources provided on the server via the HTTP protocol;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  From now on it uses resources provided on the server via the HTTP protocol.
```

. The profile calls a code snippet that registers the client to the {productname} Server, either as a traditional or Salt client.

image::cobbler_menu.png[scaledwidth=80%]

The installation server can either be the {productname} Server or one of its proxies.
To install from a proxy, you must synchronize the TFTP tree between the server and the proxy before you begin.

The DHCP server may also provide other configuration information to the client, like a host name, the address of a router and the address of a domain name server.
Some of this information might be needed for the autoinstallation, for example if you specify the installation server by its domain name.

In the installation menu, the first choice is [guimenu]``Local boot``.
If you select this, the boot process continues from the local disk drives.
This option is selected automatically if no distribution was selected after a certain time.
This is a security measure to prevent from starting an autoinstallation if no human operator is there to select one of the distributions.

Alternatively, the installation can start automatically from one of the distributions without manual intervention.

> This is called "unattended provisioning".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is called unattended provisioning.
```

> The "bare metal" functionality is a variant of unattended provisioning where the bootloader file only registers the client at the {productname} Server and does not start the installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bare metal functionality is a variant of unattended provisioning where the bootloader file only registers the client at the {productname} Server and does not start the installation.
```

[[installation-via-pxe-boot]]
= Installation via PXE Boot

> Here is how a network installation goes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During a PXE boot network installation, these steps occur:
```

Probably better wording here but I'm not sure what.

Author: i'll try to just remove the part after the comma

> . the client boots in PXE mode;
> . a DHCP server provides the client with an IP address and mask, the address of an installation server, and the name of a bootloader file on that server;
> . the client downloads the bootloader file via the TFTP protocol from the installation server and executes it;
> . the client is presented with a choice of possible distributions to install from a menu, or starts automatically installing one of the distributions;
> . the bootload downloads via the TFTP protocol a kernel and an initial RAM disk for this distribution;
> . the kernel starts an installation program, either {kickstart} or {ay} - from now on it uses resources provided on the server via the HTTP protocol;
> . the distribution is installed automatically according to a {kickstart} or an {ay};
> . the profile calls a code snippet that registers the client to the {productname} Server, either as a traditional client, or as a Salt minion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The client boots in PXE mode.
. A DHCP server provides the client with an IP address and mask, the address of an installation server, and the name of a bootloader file on that server.
. The client downloads the bootloader file using TFTP from the installation server and executes it.
. The client is presented with a choice of possible distributions to install from a menu, or starts automatically installing one of the distributions.
. The bootloader downloads a kernel and an initial RAM disk for this distribution using TFTP.
. The kernel starts either {kickstart} or {ay}.
  From now on it accesses resources on the server using HTTP.
. The distribution is installed according to a {kickstart} or an {ay} file.
. The profile calls a code snippet that registers the client to the {productname} Server, either as a traditional or Salt client.
```

Author: yes

image::cobbler_menu.png[scaledwidth=80%]

> The installation server can either be the {productname} Server or one of its proxies. To install from a proxy, you must synchronize the TFTP tree between the server and the proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The installation server can either be the {productname} Server or one of its proxies. 
To install from a proxy, you must synchronize the TFTP tree between the server and the proxy before you begin.
```

> The DHCP server may also provide other configuration information to the client, like a host name, the address of a router and the address of a domain name server. Some of this information might be needed for the autoinstallation, for example if you specify the installation server by its domain name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DHCP server may also provide other configuration information to the client, like a host name, the address of a router and the address of a domain name server. 
Some of this information might be needed for the autoinstallation, for example if you specify the installation server by its domain name.
```

Author: ok

> In the installation menu, the first of the choices is [guimenu]``Local boot``. Selecting this choice continues the boot process from the local disk drives. This option is selected automatically if no distribution was selected after a certain time. This is a security measure to prevent from starting an autoinstallation if no human operator is there to select one of the distributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the installation menu, the first choice is [guimenu]``Local boot``. 
If you select this, the boot process is performed from the local disk drives. 
This option is selected automatically if no distribution was selected after a certain time. 
This is a security measure to prevent from starting an autoinstallation if no human operator is there to select one of the distributions.
```

Author: ok

> 
> Alternatively, the installation might start automatically from one of the distributions without manual intervention. This is called "unattended provisioning".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, the installation can start automatically from one of the distributions without manual intervention. 
This is called unattended provisioning.
```

Author: ok

> 
> The "bare metal" functionality is a variant of unattended provisioning where the bootloader file only registers the client at the {productname} Server and does not start the installation. You may then trigger a reinstallation as described in previous section xref:client-configuration:autoinst-reinstall.adoc[Reinstalling Registered Systems].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a type of unattended provisioning called bare metal provisioning, where the bootloader file only registers the client at the {productname} Server and does not start the installation. 
You can then trigger a reinstallation later.
For more information about reinstallation, see xref:client-configuration:autoinst-reinstall.adoc[].
```

Author: ok

> .Procedure: Performing an Installation with PXE Boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure: Installing with PXE Boot

Author: ok

. Prepare the DHCP server, see xref:client-configuration:autoinst-pxeboot.adoc#prepare-the-dhcp-server[Prepare the DHCP Server].
. Prepare an autoinstallation distribution, see xref:client-configuration:autoinst-distributions.adoc[Autoinstallation Distributions].
. Prepare an autoinstallation profile, see xref:client-configuration:autoinst-profiles.adoc[Autoinstallation Profiles].

> . Reboot the client, and chose a distribution to install if needed.

Reviewer: I don't really like that is presented as a procedure, when it's just a list of links to other procedures (so I guess it's technically a process). Can we rearrange this to make it a little friendlier?

Author: One of the problems is this section is pretty long, without much hope to split it.

Having a procedure was a way to have this part condensed in one block.

Maybe Joseph will have a better idea.

Some other steps are optional:

> * if you want to use a proxy as the installation server, see xref:client-configuration:autoinst-pxeboot.adoc#synchronize-the-tftp-tree-with-proxies[Synchronize the TFTP Tree with Proxies];
> * if you desire a fully unattended provisioning, see xref:client-configuration:autoinst-xxxxx.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To use a proxy as the installation server, see xref:client-configuration:autoinst-pxeboot.adoc#synchronize-the-tftp-tree-with-proxies[].
* For fully unattended provisioning, see xref:client-configuration:autoinst-xxxxx.adoc[].
```

Author: ok

[[prepare-the-dhcp-server]]
== Prepare the DHCP Server

> The PXE boot process uses DHCP to find the TFTP server. The {productname} Server or its proxies can act as such a TFTP server.
> 
> You must have administrative access to the network’s DHCP server. Edit the DHCP configuration file so that it points to the {productname} Server as the TFTP boot server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PXE boot process uses DHCP to find the TFTP server. 
The {productname} Server or its proxies can act as such a TFTP server.
You must have administrative access to the network DHCP server. 
To do this, you can edit the DHCP configuration file so that it points to the {productname} Server as the TFTP boot server.
```

Author: ok

> .Procedure: Example for Configuring the ISC DHCP Server

Reviewer: It's either an example or a procedure, pick one!

```suggestion
.Example: Configuring the ISC DHCP Server
```

Author: ok

> . On the DHCP server, as root, open the [path]``/etc/dhcpd.conf`` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the DHCP server, at the comand prompt, as root, open the [path]``/etc/dhcpd.conf`` file.
```

Author: why would you need a command prompt to do that?

> . Modify the declaration for your client following this model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Modify the declaration for your client:
```

Author: ok

----
  host myclient { (...)
                  next-server 192.168.2.1;
                  filename "pxelinux.0"; }
----
. Save the file and restart the [systemitem]``dhcpd`` service.

> This example:
> 
> * directs PXE client "myclient" to the installation server at 192.168.2.1.
> * makes it retrieve the pxelinux.0 bootloader file.
> 
> Alternatively, if your DHCP server is registered at {productname}, you can configure it using the DHCPd formula instead:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example directs the PXE client ``myclient`` to the installation server at 192.168.2.1, and instructs it to retrieve the ``pxelinux.0`` bootloader file.

Alternatively, if your DHCP server is registered at {productname}, you can configure it using the DHCPd formula instead:
```

Author: ok

> .Procedure: Example for configuring ISC DHCP Server Using DHCPd Formula

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example: Configuring ISC DHCP Server Using DHCPd Formula
```

> . Configure the DHCPd formula.

Reviewer: Probably better to use "navigate to the DHCPd formula" here, rather than sending people off to look it up.

Author: No, it is a full and complicated process of its own.

To avoid "sending" the people there, we would need to bring much more details here.

Author: no, as it's an integrated part of the procedure

maybe we can reproduce here some of the information that is there...

but i don't understand - there are other long procedures here and there where you give all the details somewhere else

Reviewer: Surely the simplest thing to do here is just to make the first step "Navigate to Systems[System List], select the client you want to change, and go to the [Formulas] tab to enable the DHCPd formula"? Then the following steps are the specific settings for the formula, and it can end with "For more information about the DHCPd formula, see [salt guide]"? It's not about the length of the procedure, just trying to make sure we're sticking to conventions, making it easy for the reader to follow, and not replicating information if we don't need to.

Author: Sounds clean, trying to do that.

  For more information, see xref:salt:formula-dhcpd.adoc[DHCPd Formula].
. In the  [guimenu]``Filename EFI`` field, type [path]``grub/grub.efi`` to enable EFI PXE support.
. In the  [guimenu]``Filename`` field, type [path]``pxelinux.0`` to enable legacy BIOS support.
. Click btn:[Save Formula] to save your configuration.
. Apply the highstate.

[[synchronize-the-tftp-tree-with-proxies]]
== Synchronize the TFTP Tree with Proxies

You can synchronize the TFTP tree on the {productname} Server with the {productname} Proxy.
For synchronization, HTTPS port 443 must be open.

.Procedure: Synchronizing TFTP between Server and Proxy

> . On the {productname} Server, as root, install the [systemitem]``susemanager-tftpsync`` package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the {productname} Server, at the command prompt, as root, install the [systemitem]``susemanager-tftpsync`` package:
```

Author: i will rather simplify

----
zypper install susemanager-tftpsync
----

> . On the {productname} Proxy, as root, install the [systemitem]``susemanager-tftpsync-recv`` package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the {productname} Proxy, at the command prompt, as root, install the [systemitem]``susemanager-tftpsync-recv`` package:
```

Author: same

----
zypper install susemanager-tftpsync-recv
----

> . On the {productname} Proxy, as root, run the [command]``configure-tftpsync.sh`` script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the proxy, run the [command]``configure-tftpsync.sh`` script.
```

Author: ok

> . The script interactively asks you for details on the host names and IP addresses of the {productname} Server and Proxy, as well for the location of the [path]``tftpboot`` directory on the Proxy. For more information, use the [command]``configure-tftpsync.sh --help`` command.

Reviewer: Pretty certain I just edited this in a different PR because it was wrong. Probably should check.

Author: No clue.

> . On the {productname} Server, as root, run the [command]``configure-tftpsync.sh`` script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the server, run the [command]``configure-tftpsync.sh`` script.
+
```

Author: Hehe, that's text from you folks just copied-pasted :-)

----
configure-tftpsync.sh proxy1.example.com proxy2.example.com
----

> . Run the [command]``cobbler sync`` command on the server to push the files to the proxy. This fails if you have not configured the proxies correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run the [command]``cobbler sync`` command on the server to push the files to the proxy. 
  This fails if you have not configured the proxies correctly.
```
